Source: https://life.berkeley.edu/library-crawl/
Title: Discover A New Study Spot (Library Crawl)

Discover A New Study Spot at UC Berkeley
Tired of studying alone in your room? Looking to escape the hustle and bustle of the city and campus? Check out UC Berkeley’s 20+ libraries! Read on to learn about some of students’ favorite libraries—and the best rooms to visit within each one.

Business Library
The Business Library is located in the Haas campus area and is one of the few libraries that allows students to bring food inside. If it’s too chilly to sit in the courtyard of Cafe Think, walk just a few steps and find yourself enveloped in the peaceful atmosphere of this library.

Doe Library
Doe Library is one of the most well-known places to study on campus. Within the library are various reading rooms that provide peaceful atmospheres for students to catch up on work. Some notable study rooms include:

North Reading Room. The long, high-ceilinged hall features rows of desks with lamps at each seat so you can find an open chair, put in your headphones, and study quietly.

decorative image
North Reading Room is one of the most popular places to study in Doe Library.

Morrison Reading Room. The Morrison Reading Room is located just inside the main entrance to Doe Library. It features a lot of old-timey furniture. This is a computer-free room where you can leave behind your electronics and study distraction-free.

decorative image
With its warm lighting and cozy feel, Morrison Reading Room makes for a great place to study!

Heyns Reading Room. If you’re working on a group project, grab one of the circular desks in this study space on Doe’s second floor! The cozy armchairs make for a great place to settle in and focus.

decorative image

East Asian Library
East Asian Library is located right across from the main university library (Doe Library) and is a favorite study spot for many students! With its mahogany desks and ambient lighting, this library makes for a serene study space to help you concentrate.

decorative image

Moffitt Library
By far one of the most popular libraries on campus, most undergraduates flock to Moffitt for its comfortable seating, surrounding cafes, and late hours (It’s open 24 hours a day during finals week!). Note: Moffitt Library is closed for renovations starting in January 2025.

Happy Studying!
It’s always nice to find a quiet corner where you can relax and dive into your to-do list undisturbed. Don’t forget that there are more libraries and study spots to explore on the Cal campus beyond those on this list! Here’s hoping you discover a new favorite place to work this year.

Reva Gokhale, Class of 2027, is majoring in Society and Environment. Photos taken from the campus gallery. Cover photo by Reva Gokhale.