Source: https://visit.berkeley.edu/news/study-spot-suggestions-campus
Title: Study Spot Suggestions (spots that empty out at night)

Study Spot Suggestions on Campus
March 31, 2025
Litong D.
I promised myself before I started school at UC Berkeley that I would never study or do work in my dorm room unless there was no other option. That way, I could reserve my dorm as a space to unwind and relax, not to stress about homework. As a result, I’ve visited quite a few of the over 20 libraries on the UC Berkeley campus. I’ve also found some alternate study spots! Here are some favorites of mine.

Jean Gray Hargrove Music Library
The Music Library is one of the smaller libraries on campus, and I always like to point it out while giving a campus tour. During Reading, Review, and Recitation (RRR) Week, the week before final exams, I would get here in the morning after it opened at 9 a.m. There would be so many spots to choose from — a rarity for a library during RRR week! I like to study on the bottom floor — the tables offer great natural light and are stocked with plenty of outlets.

Chemistry, Astronomy and Physics Library
The Chemistry, Astronomy and Physics Library is quite populated during the day. However, at night, it often transforms into a quiet, empty study spot. By around 8 p.m. on weekdays, the library is almost completely devoid of people, even though it’s open until 10 p.m. I love coming here after dinner and getting two solid hours of focus time by myself here.

Stanley Hall
Stanley Hall is open to all students and staff Monday through Friday from 7 a.m. to 6 p.m. There are small tables on almost every floor that you can work at! I find Stanley Hall’s interior to be especially attractive, so I love working here. If you’re looking for a bite to eat while you work, Kiklo Cafe offers a different ambiance if you like a little bit of noise while studying.

MLK Student Union
I know, I know. How could I mention one of the most popular spots for students to gather in an article about niche study spots!?

On days where students like to go out (i.e. Fridays and Saturdays), the MLK Student Union building actually has many open tables! Fun fact: MLK is open later than any library on campus on a normal Friday and Saturday. Whereas Doe Library closes the latest out of any library at 10 p.m. (as of Spring 2025), MLK closes at 11 p.m. on Fridays and Saturdays, perfect for students looking for an extra hour of studying!

Dwinelle Hall
If you walk in through the front doors of Dwinelle Hall, there are some desks around the doors of Dwinelle 145 and 155. Most of them are standing desks, so they’re perfect if you are looking to shake out your muscles after sitting in class for a long time. Outlets are also plentiful if you are looking for a charger for your electronic devices!

Of course, I encourage you to look around for your own favorite study spots. It never hurts to try a new library or look around a new building to learn more about the UC Berkeley campus! Personally, my next library to explore is the Institute of Transportation Studies Library. Happy studying!