Source: https://life.berkeley.edu/cal-campus-cafe-list
Title: Cal Campus Cafe List

Accessible from Anywhere
If you’re feeling hungry on campus, don’t worry! There is always a cafe that’s just a ten-minute walk away. UC Berkeley’s campus cafes offer everything: soups, salads, hot-pressed sandwiches, lattes, burritos, banh mis, and so much more. Read on to find which cafes meet your palate!

Northside Cafes
Yali’s Qualcomm Cafe is a great place to get some work done given its plentiful indoor and sunny outdoor seating. Located right outside Sutardja Dai Hall, Yali’s serves coffees, juices, and smoothies to perfectly complement a wide array of pastries. If those aren’t your style, they also sell sandwiches, soups, salads, and bagels galore. It’s the ideal spot for the early risers and the brunch getters as they open at 8 a.m. and close by 3 p.m., Monday through Friday.

V & A Cafe can be found next to Soda Hall and Etcheverry Hall and serves breakfast, lunch, and dinner. Open from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m., Monday through Friday, V & A sells pastries, paninis, pasta, and salads. Many of their dishes even include vegetarian options.

Empty and clean space with tables in Yali's.
Yali’s at Sutardja Dai Hall

East Campus Cafes
If you’re heading toward Haas or studying in the Environmental Design Library, the cafes on the east end of campus may be perfect for a quick bite.

Cafe Think is located in Chou Hall, vegetarian friendly, and full of fresh, high-quality food. This is the perfect option if you’re nearby from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m., Monday through Thursday or 8 a.m. to 2 p.m. on Fridays.

Caffè Strada is one of the only campus cafe options that is open seven days a week and, arguably, the most aesthetically pleasing of them all. With sunny outdoor seating and greenery to boot, this is the ideal spot for a latte, sandwich, or pastry. Stop by if you’re headed to Berkeley’s Law School or the Anthropology Library.

People working on the tables outside at Caffe Strada.
Caffè Strada

Central Campus Cafes
Maybe you have class in Dwinelle or Wheeler, or perhaps you’re simply walking through Sproul. If that’s you, some of the cafes in the center of campus might be the right pick.

Flex Dollar Friendly
Golden Bear Café (GBC) serves coffees, burritos, and endless snacks while conveniently located in the center of Sproul Plaza. Open every day except Sundays, GBC accepts both Berkeley Dining meal plan meal swipes and flex dollars for its tasty breakfast, lunch, and dinner options.

Ladle & Leaf is one of campus’ healthiest options thanks to its menu of various soups and salads. Located inside the Student Union, it is my go-to during Berkeley’s cold, rainy days.

Students at the front of Golden Bear Cafe's entrance.
Golden Bear Café

Other Options
Goldie’s is the Student Union’s classic cafe option, serving coffee and snacks to help get your weekday started. If a caffeine kick is what you need, stop by here anytime between 8 a.m. and 2 p.m.

Free Speech Movement Café is located inside Moffitt Library and, much like Yali’s, it serves hot sandwiches, pastries, teas, coffees, and more while offering both indoor and outdoor seating. Open every day from morning until as late as 10 p.m., it is the ideal spot for a quick break after grueling Moffitt study sessions. Note: Moffitt Library is closed for renovations starting in January 2025.